Add Security Guidelines for Snap Development (#1041)
MetaMask/metamask-docs: snaps/concepts/security-guidelines.md

---
description: Learn about best practices for creating secure and reliable Snaps.
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Snaps security guidelines

This page outlines essential principles for builders to develop secure and reliable Snaps.
Use these guidelines when creating your Snap to ensure it is safe for users.

> ## Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manifest file permissions
```

> The following are guidelines for using the Snap [manifest file](../concepts/anatomy.md/#manifest-file)
> and its [permissions](../reference/permissions.md):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are guidelines for managing permissions in the Snap [manifest file](../concepts/anatomy.md/#manifest-file).
```

> - **Minimum permissions** - Follow the principle of least authority: only add the minimum
>   permissions needed by your Snap in the manifest file.
>   Before publishing your Snap, check the permissions again and remove any unused permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Minimum permissions** - Adhere to the principle of least authority by only including the minimum permissions required by your Snap in the manifest file.
  Before publishing your Snap, check the permissions again and remove any unused permissions.
```

  You can validate your permissions using the [Snaps Simulator Manifest
  Validator](https://metamask.github.io/snaps/snaps-simulator/staging/#/manifest).

- **Minimum RPC access** - When adding the [`endowment:rpc`](../reference/permissions.md/#endowmentrpc)
  permission for Snaps or dapps, ask yourself if both are necessary.
  For example, if permission is granted to communicate with Snaps, it means other Snaps can call
  your Snap's sensitive RPC methods.

- **Minimum network access** - Only add the [`endowment:network-access`](../reference/permissions.md/#endowmentnetwork-access)
  permission if it's absolutely necessary, such as when needing to communicate with a remote API
  that is part of your Snap's functionality.
  This to mitigate users' concern about sharing wallet usage to remote servers.
  If your Snap needs this permission, inform the user before communicating with remote servers and
  include a privacy policy in your Snap that explains how data is shared.

> ## Transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Transaction handling and signing
```

The following are guidelines for handling and signing transactions:

> - **Transaction details** - When handling transactions, present the user with a prompt displaying
>   all transaction details such as the receiver address, chain ID, network, and amount.
>   Show the domain name of the site that originated the transaction request, and the blockchain it
>   will be sent to.
>   The receiver address is crucial to prevent the user from sending funds to the wrong destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Transaction details** - Handle transactions by actively presenting a prompt to the user that displays all transaction details, including the receiver address, chain ID, network, and amount. Ensure to display the originating site's domain name and the target blockchain. Always verify the receiver address to avoid sending funds to an incorrect destination.
```

> - **Transparent signing** - Display the message to be signed by the user in the Snap confirmation flow.
>   Do not rely on the requesting site for this, as it can choose not to display it and let the
>   Snap silently sign the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Transparent signing** - Display the message to be signed by the user in the Snap confirmation flow.
  Do not rely on the requesting site to display this message, as it might choose not to, leading to the Snap signing the message silently.
```

> - **Consentful confirmations** - Before signing a transaction, show the user a confirmation prompt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Consentful confirmations** - Before signing a transaction, display a user confirmation prompt
```

  with all the transaction details as previously mentioned.

> ## Authorization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## User notifications and authorization
```

- **Limit access to sensitive methods** - When building a Snap with sensitive RPC methods,
  use a companion dapp as an "admin interface" to interact with your Snap's sensitive methods.
  There are two ways to do this:
  
  1. Restrict the [`endowment:rpc`](../reference/permissions.md#endowmentrpc) permission to specific
     URLs using the `allowedOrigins` caveat.
  
  2. Filter specific methods to specific URLs using the built-in [URL
     library](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL): 

    ```JavaScript
    const referrer = new URL(origin);

    if(referrer.protocol === "https:" && referrer.host.endsWith("metamask.io")) { 
      console.log("URL is valid"); 
    }
    else { 
      console.log("URL is NOT valid"); 
    }
    ```
    
    In this example, the RPC method can be restricted when the origin matches `https://metamask.io`
    or any subdomain.
    This check can be used on any RPC method that should not be callable by all sites.

    :::note
    Avoid using regular expressions or string matching to filter URLs.
    The URL library provides a much more reliable interface for matching URLs.
    :::

> ## Responsible information management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Securing sensitive user information
```

  copying and sending the error.

- **Private keys** - Avoid retrieving the user's private key from the Snap unless
  absolutely necessary, such as to sign a transaction.
  If you only need the user's public key, use [`snap_getBip32PublicKey`](../reference/rpc-api.md#snap_getbip32publickey)
  instead of deriving it from the private key.
  Never return the private key in an RPC method to a dapp or another Snap.
  To give users a way to view their private key, display it in a dialog.

- **Limit exposure** - Avoid accidentally returning sensitive information from a method.
  For example, you might have a method that intends to return sensitive information only in specific
  cases, but due to a typo or bad logic, it returns the information incorrectly, leaking data.
  Even if you have a legitimate reason for allowing a user to export sensitive information, you
  should prevent that information from being revealed carelessly (similar to how MetaMask makes it
  difficult to reveal a Secret Recovery Phrase and for an observer looking over a user's shoulder to
  see it).

When in doubt, choose friction over convenience for sensitive information.

> ## Input validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Validating RPC parameters and handling values
```

  The special characters `*` and `_` render Markdown formatting, so what the user sees does not
  match the content.
  To avoid this, use `copyable` instead:

  ![Example using copyable with clean rendering](../assets/copyable-example-2.png)

  `copyable` does not render Markdown and has the added benefit that the user can select to copy the content.
  Also, the formatting provides a visual delineator to separate arbitrary input or fields from user
  interface text.

- **Check transaction data size** - Check the size of the ABI-encoded transaction data's function arguments.
  The ABI specification requires all arguments, regardless of their type, to be 32 bytes.
  If an argument is not 32 bytes, the calling contract's behavior might depend on the contract
  compiler version.
  For example, Solidity 0.5.0 treats these non-aligned arguments as invalid and reverts the function call.
  Older Solidity versions automatically append zeros at the end of the transaction data to ensure
  all arguments are 32 bytes.
  An attacker can exploit this feature to bypass security checks implemented in the corresponding
  contract function that reads those function arguments.

> ## Deprecated methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Avoid using deprecated methods
```

  We recommend using [`snap_getEntropy`](../reference/rpc-api.md/#snap_getentropy) for entropy, the
  built-in [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) or
  [Noble cryptography libraries](https://paulmillr.com/noble/), and safe hashing algorithms such as `sha256`.
  Choose audited, widely used libraries over obscure, untested implementations.

## Dependency management

The following are guidelines for securing your supply chain:

- **Pin npm package dependencies** - Pin all npm package dependencies in the Snap's dependency tree
  to exact versions.
  If you don't, a supply chain attacker can trick you into including a malicious version of a
  package instead of the original, legitimate one.
  You can quickly check the status of your dependencies by running `npm audit` in your Snap directory.

- **Secure your stack** - Your Snap companion dapp and any remote servers are part of your security model.
  We recommend using [LavaMoat](https://github.com/LavaMoat/LavaMoat) to secure relevant parts of
  your stack and following security best practices for your website or server.

> ## Publishing and serving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Publishing and serving your Snap
```

  `copyable` does not render Markdown and has the added benefit that the user can click to copy the content.
  Also, the formatting provides a visual delineator to separate arbitrary input or fields from user
  interface text.

- **Transaction data size check** - Always check the size of a transaction data's function arguments.
  The encoded transaction data includes the function signature and its arguments.
  The ABI specification requires that all arguments, regardless of their types, must be 32 bytes in size.
  If an argument does not have 32 bytes in an ABI-encoded transaction data, the calling contract may
  behave differently depending on the contract compiler version.
  For instance, Solidity 0.5.0 treats these non-aligned arguments as invalid and reverts the
  function call.
  However, versions before Solidity 0.5.0 automatically append zeros at the end of the transaction
  data to ensure all arguments are 32-byte sized.
  An attacker could exploit this feature to bypass any security checks implemented in the
  corresponding contract function that reads those function arguments.

## Deprecated methods

Avoid using the following deprecated methods:

> - Don't use `wallet_enable` or `wallet_invokeSnap`, which are deprecated in favor of

Author: Should be "Don't use `wallet_enable` which was deprecated..."
